e2sim/README.md, before:

#/*****************************************************************************
#                                                                            *
# Copyright 2019 AT&T Intellectual Property                                  *
# Copyright 2019 Nokia                                                       *
# Copyright 2022 Alexandre Huff                                              *
#                                                                            *
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");            *
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.           *
# You may obtain a copy of the License at                                    *
#                                                                            *
#      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0                            *
#                                                                            *
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software        *
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,          *
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.   *
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and        *
# limitations under the License.                                             *
#                                                                            *
#******************************************************************************/

This is an implementation of the E2 Simulator based on the E2AP v2 defined in
O-RAN. The E2 Simulator is built as a library that supports basic functions and
is linked by an E2 Simulation application.

The E2 Simulator breaks up the simulation roles into two:
1. Base E2AP support
2. E2SM Support

`#1` is the role supported by E2 Simulator library, while `#2` is supported by the
calling application.
Calling applications are provided in this repo under the `e2sm` directory.

E2 Simulator enables a specific E2SM to be supported by the calling application
in the following way:

* E2SM must be registered by the calling application
* E2SM-specific code uses callbacks to handle interaction from xApp
* E2SM-specific code must continuously implement simulation logic

Registration of an E2SM with the E2 Simulator entails the following:
* RAN function definition
* Callback functions for any of the following:
    * Subscription
    * Control
    * Any Responses

The following is the E2 Simulator Main Program Flow:
1. Upon startup, the simulator generates E2 Setup Request.
   For each E2SM that is registered, include RAN function definition.
2. Upon receiving incoming requests:
    * Decode
    * Identify RAN function ID
    * Call appropriate callback function for RAN function ID and request type
    * Provide entire encoded request
    * If no callback is provided, we return an error response
3. Upon receiving responses:
    * Decode
    * Identify RAN function ID
    * If a callback is registered for this message type, call it based on RAN function ID and request type
    * Provide entire encoded response
    * If no callback is registered, no action is taken

E2SM Callback Functions:
* Callback functions are responsible for sending responses
* They may also need to set up ongoing simulation messaging
    * REPORT Service sends back periodic Indication messages containing REPORT
    * INSERT Service sends back periodic Indication messages containing INSERT
* They may need to associate incoming messages with existing service invocation
    * Modify Subscription
    * CONTROL message associated with INSERT

**Important:** Base E2 simulator should not be concerned with these details; only specific E2SM code should be responsible for any messaging


### Steps to build the simulator

1. Install dependencies
```
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install -y \
        build-essential \
        git \
        cmake \
        libsctp-dev\
        lksctp-tools \
        autoconf \
        automake \
        libtool \
        bison \
        flex \
        libboost-all-dev
```

2. Build and run the official e2sim

```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. && make
./e2sm/rc/src/e2sim-rc [options] e2term-address
```

**Important:** To build a simulation with another E2SM just add a new line in the CMakeLists.txt file as follows:

`add_subdirectory( e2sm/kpm )`

Commit message:

Update submodule and documentation
This change updates the submodule documentation, as well as,
how docker builds E2 simulator images.

e2sim/README.md, after:

#/*****************************************************************************
#                                                                            *
# Copyright 2019 AT&T Intellectual Property                                  *
# Copyright 2019 Nokia                                                       *
# Copyright 2022 Alexandre Huff                                              *
#                                                                            *
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");            *
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.           *
# You may obtain a copy of the License at                                    *
#                                                                            *
#      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0                            *
#                                                                            *
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software        *
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,          *
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.   *
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and        *
# limitations under the License.                                             *
#                                                                            *
#******************************************************************************/

This is an implementation of the E2 Simulator based on the E2AP v2 defined in
O-RAN. The E2 Simulator is built as a library that supports basic functions and
is linked by an E2 Simulation application.

The E2 Simulator breaks up the simulation roles into two:
1. Base E2AP support
2. E2SM Support

`#1` is the role supported by E2 Simulator library, while `#2` is supported by the
calling application.
Calling applications are provided in this repo under the `e2sm` directory.

E2 Simulator enables a specific E2SM to be supported by the calling application
in the following way:

* E2SM must be registered by the calling application
* E2SM-specific code uses callbacks to handle interaction from xApp
* E2SM-specific code must continuously implement simulation logic

Registration of an E2SM with the E2 Simulator entails the following:
* RAN function definition
* Callback functions for any of the following:
    * Subscription
    * Control
    * Any Responses

The following is the E2 Simulator Main Program Flow:
1. Upon startup, the simulator generates E2 Setup Request.
   For each E2SM that is registered, include RAN function definition.
2. Upon receiving incoming requests:
    * Decode
    * Identify RAN function ID
    * Call appropriate callback function for RAN function ID and request type
    * Provide entire encoded request
    * If no callback is provided, we return an error response
3. Upon receiving responses:
    * Decode
    * Identify RAN function ID
    * If a callback is registered for this message type, call it based on RAN function ID and request type
    * Provide entire encoded response
    * If no callback is registered, no action is taken

E2SM Callback Functions:
* Callback functions are responsible for sending responses
* They may also need to set up ongoing simulation messaging
    * REPORT Service sends back periodic Indication messages containing REPORT
    * INSERT Service sends back periodic Indication messages containing INSERT
* They may need to associate incoming messages with existing service invocation
    * Modify Subscription
    * CONTROL message associated with INSERT

**Important:** Base E2 simulator should not be concerned with these details; only specific E2SM code should be responsible for any messaging


### Steps to build the simulator

1. Install dependencies
```
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install -y \
        build-essential \
        git \
        cmake \
        libsctp-dev\
        lksctp-tools \
        autoconf \
        automake \
        libtool \
        bison \
        flex \
        libboost-all-dev
```

2. Build and install dependencies

E2SM-RC simulation depends on Prometheus, so fetch all submodule dependencies:

```
git submodule update --init --recursive
cd e2sm/rc/3rdparty/prometheus-cpp/
mkdir build && cd build && cmake .. -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF && make -j 4  && make install && ldconfig
```

3. Build and run the official e2sim

Run the following commands in the root folder of the repository:

```
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. && make
./e2sm/rc/src/e2sim-rc [options] e2term-address
```

**Important:** To build a simulation with another E2SM just add a new line in the CMakeLists.txt file as follows:

`add_subdirectory( e2sm/kpm )`
